---
title:  "Presented at Churchill College's Conference on Everything"
date:   2018-04-28 00:00:00 +0100
categories: news
photo: "/images/coe.png"
---

Gave a talk titled "Discovering Novel Materials for Energy Storage Using Computational Techniques" to a collection of Churchill MCR (Graduate Students), Fellows, and Faculty at the 2018 [Conference on Everything](http://mcr.chu.cam.ac.uk/activities/conference-on-everything/) held at Churchill College, Cambridge. 

The growing need for sustainable and efficient energy storage devices demands research
into rechargeable batteries, specifically lithium-ion batteries, which currently dominate
the battery research field due to their high energy density. However, this technology at
the present state contains two main limitations: first, the dwindling abundance of Li which
has led to steep increases in cost, and second by the efficiency of the electrode materials
used. Sodium-ion batteries have thus received increased attention in recent years, given
the relatively high abundance of Na. Given that Na+ ions have a larger radius than Li+,
attention must be given to the choice of suitable anode materials, which allow for
adequate sodiaition. To address both issues, an automated computational approach is
employed which predicts novel anode materials with higher capacities from first
principles calculations.

The ab initio Random Structure Searching code (AIRSS) is used to search for the initial
anode structures, and a ternary hull is constructed between these compounds and either
Li or Na. The structures which lie close to the hull, and thus are most energetically
favorable are then further studied as a means of understanding the chemical
transformations undergone during lithiation or sodiation. AIRSS can then be used to
predict the structures formed both at the interface between these anodes and an
electrolyte, and within the grain boundaries of the bulk materials. From this highthroughput
method we can understand the chemical pathways of ion conduction in novel
battery materials and calculate energetic barriers at the anode-electrolyte interface.
